+++
title = "My new daily driver"
description = "The Thinkpad X1 Carbon G13"
date = "2026-02-28T08:33:16-07:00"
tags = ["tech", "laptops", "linux"]
draft = true
+++

<!--toc:start-->
- [Specs](#specs)
- [Initial Impressions](#initial-impressions)
- [Setup](#setup)
  - [Distribution](#distribution)
  - [Desktop Environment](#desktop-environment)
  - [Programs](#programs)
- [Why](#why)
<!--toc:end-->

I bought a new laptop! I didn't go with the [Framework](https://frame.work/),
which I've been thinking about for the past year, because of memory and storage
price surges. I figure that it wasn't the right time to get into that space, and
I can also join in the future. I decided on the Thinkpad X1 Carbon G13. I bought
it through an online-only deal on Costco; it didn't have any reviews yet, so it
was sort of a gamble on quality.[^1] I did my research and checked Walmart,
Amazon, and the Lenovo website. It seemed like a pretty decent deal compared to
the other sites, plus I would get a 90 day return and points back as a member.

## Specs

These are the most relevant specs on the Thinkpad configuration. The equivalent
configuration through Lenovo was over $600-1000 more expensive between sales.

- Intel Core Ultra 7 258V
  - 4 performance, 4 efficiency cores (no hyper-threading)
- 32GB LPDDR5 8533MHz RAM
- 1TB NVMe M.2 TLC Gen 4 SSD

## Initial Impressions

My first impression was that this laptop is _light_. It is truly a feather
weight. According to Lenovo's website, this particular configuration comes to
around a kilogram! It truly feels weightless as I'm moving between my desk and
the couch, or placing it on the table or into my backpack. Portability is a
feature of laptops that I __highly__ value. I will not go for displays larger
than 13-14 inches or laptops that weigh 3 or more lbs, even if it means a less
powerful CPU or GPU. If I needed extra processing power, I will find a server or
desktop to work on.

My next impression was that the Thinkpad is dead simple and gorgeous, both on
the inside and outside. The X1 Carbon has a sleek black matte finish with
beautiful red accents. It doesn't have an OLED 120Hz display like the higher end
configurations, but that's fine; I think the battery life will be _much_ better
since the monitor can actually be quite a battery drain. I'll admit, the texture
is not what I expected. I thought it would be more metallic like a MacBook, but
I'm staring to love the soft rubbery feel.

## Setup

In terms of configuration, I actually don't have a large checklist. I've gotten
to the point (and age) where I just want things to work. I don't have time to
endlessly configure my laptop and fix things when they break. I prioritize a
stable desktop environment and programs.

### Distribution

I have decided to run Fedora 43 Workstation (GNOME) as the primary distribution
for several reasons.

1. It just _works_. All of the hardware is immediately recognized, and there was
   no manual configuration from my end[^2]
   - I sipped the `nix` kool-aid a bit too hard in the past year. I tried to
     migrate all of my computers to `NixOS`, `nix-darwin`, or `home-manager`
     which meant that I have spent an unreasonable amount of time tweaking my
     [configurations](https://github.com/suasuasuasuasua/nixos-config)
   - I imagine that if I installed `NixOS`, I may be able to get things up and
     running in a day or two, but it may take me a few weeks (after work and
     between the weekends) to get things exactly working. There does exist a
     [GitHub repository](https://github.com/NixOS/nixos-hardware) that tracks
     hardware quirks, so this is a clue for me in the future, if I ever do want
     to continue back down this path
   - Nevertheless, I'm taking a step back from `nix`. I still think that
     `home-manager` is an invaluable tool to sync my configurations, but I have
     decided to take this time to daily drive and refine my plain
     [dotfiles](https://github.com/suasuasuasuasua/dotfiles) using `git` and
     `stow`
1. My AWS server at work uses RedHat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), and Fedora is the
   sister community-maintained Linux distribution based on RHEL. Naturally, I
   gravitated towards Fedora because I was familiar with RHEL, but also because
   RedHat has a sane balance between security, stability, and user experience
1. This is a minor reason, but Fedora got the thumbs up from Linus Torvalds, so
   it gets the thumbs up from me

In terms of configuration, I made the following changes.

- Generate new keys
  - SSH
  - GPG
  - Wireguard
- Enable flatpak
- Enable `loginctl` lingering
- Update fonts
  - I am bouncing between JetBrains Mono and Iosevka
- Remap copilot key with `keyd`

### Desktop Environment

I like to use a desktop environment like GNOME or KDE, just so everything works
out of the box. I have tried my hand at Sway and i3 already, but I find that a
display manager doesn't make sense to use for my workflow, especially with GUI
apps and the fact that I use `tmux`.

I like GNOME particularly on laptops. I think the interface is much more
intuitive and usable on a small screen. I also like that GNOME is similar to
macOS, which I personally think is the king of desktop user experiences.

There were only a few things that I had to manually setup here.

- Dark mode
- Fingerprints
- Night-shift schedule

### Programs

I have a long list of programs, but the pertinent were these.

- btop
- cargo
- clang
- foot
- fzf
- gcc
- golang
- neovim
- nodejs
- stow
- syncthing
- tmux
- vim

And here are some important GUI programs

- calibre
- gimp
- localsend
- obs
- spotify

Here is the `fastfetch` for those who are curious.

```text
$ fastfetch
             .',;::::;,'.                 justinhoang@ilmgf
         .';:cccccccccccc:;,.             -----------------
      .;cccccccccccccccccccccc;.          OS: Fedora Linux 43 (Workstation Edition) x86_64
    .:cccccccccccccccccccccccccc:.        Host: 21NTS41J00 (ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 13)
  .;ccccccccccccc;.:dddl:.;ccccccc;.      Kernel: Linux 6.18.13-200.fc43.x86_64
 .:ccccccccccccc;OWMKOOXMWd;ccccccc:.     Uptime: 10 hours, 3 mins
.:ccccccccccccc;KMMc;cc;xMMc;ccccccc:.    Packages: 2055 (rpm), 560 (nix-user), 60 (nix-default), 14 (flatpak)
,cccccccccccccc;MMM.;cc;;WW:;cccccccc,    Shell: zsh 5.9
:cccccccccccccc;MMM.;cccccccccccccccc:    Display (BOE0CE0): 1920x1200 @ 1.25x in 14", 60 Hz [Built-in]
:ccccccc;oxOOOo;MMM000k.;cccccccccccc:    DE: GNOME 49.4
cccccc;0MMKxdd:;MMMkddc.;cccccccccccc;    WM: Mutter (Wayland)
ccccc;XMO';cccc;MMM.;cccccccccccccccc'    WM Theme: Stylix
ccccc;MMo;ccccc;MMW.;ccccccccccccccc;     Theme: adw-gtk3 [GTK2/3/4]
ccccc;0MNc.ccc.xMMd;ccccccccccccccc;      Icons: Adwaita [GTK2/3/4]
cccccc;dNMWXXXWM0:;cccccccccccccc:,       Font: DejaVu Sans (12pt) [GTK2/3/4]
cccccccc;.:odl:.;cccccccccccccc:,.        Cursor: Adwaita (24px)
ccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc:'.          Terminal: tmux 3.5a
:ccccccccccccccccccccccc:;,..             CPU: Intel(R) Core(TM) Ultra 7 258V (8) @ 4.80 GHz
 ':cccccccccccccccc::;,.                  GPU: Intel Arc Graphics 130V / 140V @ 1.95 GHz [Integrated]
                                          Memory: 7.51 GiB / 30.82 GiB (24%)
                                          Swap: 0 B / 8.00 GiB (0%)
                                          Disk (/): 31.60 GiB / 951.27 GiB (3%) - btrfs
                                          Local IP (wlp0s20f3): 192.168.0.84/24
                                          Battery (5B11M90099): 74% [Discharging]
                                          Locale: en_US.UTF-8
```

## Why

Though my Chromebook still works _fine_, its age was beginning to show, as it
only includes 8GB of RAM and the battery health was declining. Having Firefox,
Spotify, and a terminal emulator with `tmux`, multiple instances of `neovim`,
and compiling code often makes it run hot and slow.

I originally bought it with my dad for college for tinkering because I wanted
something lightweight, had decent battery, and had the ability to install Linux.
I was already daily driving my mom's MacBook Air M1 at that point, and I also
had a chunky gaming laptop that I mostly left at home. I wanted a computer that
was light and quiet, yet powerful. Out of the box, ChromeOS does indeed come
with a Linux environment feature, similar to WSL, but it came with its own host
of problems. For one, you could only use Debian which often had outdated
packages. I often found myself depending on `brew` or needing to manually
compile programs, which was cumbersome since these should be automatically
updated by the package manager. And two, a Chromebook's internal components are
often underpowered which makes running complex workflows or GUI programs
difficult. This decision was made to balance the price of the computer and the
battery life. It wasn't until I graduated that I fully removed ChromeOS and was
able to install any Linux distribution.

I'm going to be using this laptop primarily for web browsing (email, bills, and
content consumption), light gaming (Minecraft and Balatro), and personal
software development -- no work coding of course. I don't plan on running any
programs that are _too_ intensive like video rendering, 3D modeling, or an LLM
or even compiling large projects like the Linux kernel, so this laptop is
perfect even if it's not the most powerful. My apartment is quite noisy since
I'm on the first floor _and_ close to the entrance door, so I like to get out and
study in libraries and cafes, so the portability of this Thinkpad is perfect.

[^1]:
    Costco lists this Thinkpad as having 4 performance and 8 efficiency cores,
    which does not match any CPU, much less the Intel Ultra 258V.
[^2]:
    To setup secure boot for Fedora, I had to enter setup mode and disable
    secure boot. GNOME software gave me an option to update the keys, then I
    was finally able to enter "user-mode" and re-enable secure boot
