+++
title = "Moving Out and Learning to Adult"
description = "Growing up is hard"
date = "2026-01-13T20:30:34-07:00"
tags = [ "life", "thoughts" ]
+++

<!--toc:start-->

- [Logistics](#logistics)
- [Chasing Productivity is the Killer of Productivity](#chasing-productivity-is-the-killer-of-productivity)
- [Change is Good](#change-is-good)
- [Memories are Reconstructions](#memories-are-reconstructions)
- [Life is What You Make It](#life-is-what-you-make-it)

<!--toc:end-->

I moved out of my parents house about 3-4 months ago with my girlfriend of two
years. We're both still alive! Bills are being paid, and savings are being
saved. I figure that's a good sign that we're doing well.

This post summarizes my experience as a baby adult. I want to aggregate thoughts
and lessons that have been on my mind. Some of these sections deserve their own
post to be completely honest. I hope one day that I'll revisit these posts with
a fresh and interesting perspective.

## Logistics

First of all, let's start with the logistical side of being an adult. You have
to pay for **everything**.

1. Emergencies
1. Food
1. Girlfriend Tax
1. Insurance
1. Internet
1. Rent
1. Utilities

And at the same time, I need to think about investing in these:

1. 401k
1. Emergency savings
1. HYSA (savings account)
1. Individual brokerage account
1. Roth IRA
1. Travel savings

Don't even forget that you have to schedule and remember _all_ your appointments
like oil changes, dental or health appointments, and events and holidays with
friends and family.

Thinking about it all makes me dizzy :face_with_spiral_eyes:.

## Chasing Productivity is the Killer of Productivity

I am guilty of always trying to find the best study setup, or best software
development routine, or best plugins for my text editor, or tweaking my desktop
or server configuration so that everything is _just_ right. I trick myself into
_thinking_ that I'm doing something useful (which it might be), but I end up
putting off the task that I'm _supposed_ to be doing.

> Examples of time-wasters have been 1) tweaking my VSCode or Neovim setup with
> all the extensions and settings, 2) installing and using a Linux distribution
> (and wiping if I have too many packages), 3) endlessly changing my NixOS
> configuration, 4) being indecisive on the server purchase and setup, 5)
> switching note-taking workflows between handwritten notes, Notability,
> OneNote, plain markdown files, neorg files, Apple reminders, and more, and 6)
> adding unnecessary services to my homelab.

I **productively** procrastinate.

Lately, I have been addressing this "productivity-killer" in two ways:

1. If I am trying to find _the best_ setup,
   - I stop myself and just _use_ what I already have. No frills, if something
     doesn't work, then I change it accordingly (see 2.)
   - Setups, whether for coding, note-taking, reading, etc. evolve over time to
     fit the user
1. If I am obsessing over "distraction" tasks,
   - I ask myself, "do I need to finish this today?", "is this task pertinent?",
     or "can this just wait until the weekend?"
   - 9 times out of 10, the answer is that the task can wait. I can either add
     the task to my agenda (if it's life related) or add it as a task on GitHub
     (if it's coding related)

One of the worst habits I have is where I _need_ everything to be _right_ in
order for my day to be "productive." For example, I need to wake up at 6 AM, I
need to have my water/tea/coffee, I need to get to work by 7:30 AM, I need to
check my email, and so on. If there is any deviation from the **plan**, I freak
out and feel like the whole day is ruined. I talked to my manager about this,
and she jokingly brought up the analogy about spilled milk. If I let the day be
ruined, it's the same as just spilling the rest of the cup, rather than enjoying
what is left.

## Change is Good

It is never too late to be the person that you want to be.

## Memories are Reconstructions

In one of the chapters in The Handmaid's Tale, the main character is
reminiscing.

> “This is a reconstruction. All of it is a reconstruction. It's a
> reconstruction now, in my head, as I lie flat on my single bed rehearsing what
> I should or shouldn't have said, what I should or shouldn't have done, how I
> should have played it. If I ever get out of here..Let's stop there. I intend
> to get out.”

I think about this quote often when I start to ruminate on my past. I think
about how the thoughts that I'm thinking about aren't the exact thought that I
thought (huh?). It's like taking a measurement with a scale. Is my weight 145lb?
Or 145.01lb? Or 144.99lb? The measurement that I get is only as accurate as the
measurement device, and even then there is uncertainty.

And so, when I think about my past, my brain is taking a measurement of my
experience, where my experience itself is a measurement of existing in the
world. It is not possible to perfectly reconstruct feelings, thoughts, and
experiences. We can only attempt to put those pieces together. We want go to a
place that doesn't exist, in a time we can no longer come back to. Memory is a
fickle thing.

Sometimes I think about the circumstances that pushed me out of my parents
house. Was it really that miserable? I think hard about it, and it couldn't have
been that bad right? I missed my parents and brother for the first two weeks. I
wasn't alone because i had my girlfriend, but I felt lonely. It was like I lost
them even though they were only half an hour away. Rather, it was like I lost
that piece of my life -- like that chapter in my life is inextricably closed
forever.

Time scares me. Sometimes, I think about growing up in that house and feel
overwhelmed. I can never fix my mistakes or say what needed to be said. I can
never be honest with them and try to fix the family. I can never go back to that
place as it once was, made of sweetness and anger.

I've been back to my parent's house. I don't quite feel like a stranger, but I
also don't feel like I belong. I stand in my room and think about the _me_ that
used to inhabit this place. The _me_ that spent the last 20 years growing up in
this place. The _me_ that was so unhappy in the dysfunction of that house that I
_had_ to leave. I also think about the _me_ that was dying laughing with my
brother playing video games. I think about the tender moments with my mom and
dad. I think about my 18th birthday and high school graduation celebration when
all my friends and family came over. And most of all, I think about my parents
growing older. I feel bitter because, even though I think I'm grown up, I still
feel like a petulant child who's feelings got hurt and will hold a grudge until
it's too late.

Home brings out a certain softness in me. But at the same time, it hardens my
heart because I know I made the right decision to choose myself.

## Life is What You Make It

Life is hard. Getting up early for work is hard. Making dinner every night is
hard. Going grocery shopping every weekend at Walmart and Costco is hard. Eating
healthy is hard. Finding time for passions like art and music is hard. Commuting
sucks. Paying rent sucks. Going to the gym when you're already tired sucks.

I could sleep in, call in sick, and work from home. I could dine outside or
order food delivery. I could buy all the junk food I want. I could put off
learning instruments because "I should focus on work or school" or "I don't have
enough time". I could skip the gym because "it's leg day, and I need a rest day
anyway." I could ignore the calls and text messages from friends and family
because I'm "too busy."

While there are many aspects of life that you cannot control, I realize that
life begins when you find out what you _can_ control. It's simple, yet it
requires a profound shift in perspective.
