+++
title = "Chasing Productivity"
description = "Do only what you need to"
date = "2026-01-16T14:07:58-07:00"
tags = [ "life", "thoughts", "productivity" ]
draft = true
+++

I am guilty of always trying to find the best study setup, or best software
development routine, or best plugins for my text editor, or tweaking my desktop
or server configuration so that everything is _just_ right. I trick myself into
_thinking_ that I'm doing something useful (which it might be), but I end up
putting off the task that I'm _supposed_ to be doing.

> Examples of time-wasters have been 1) tweaking my VSCode or Neovim setup with
> all the extensions and settings, 2) installing and using a Linux distribution
> (and wiping if I have too many packages), 3) endlessly changing my NixOS
> configuration, 4) being indecisive on the server purchase and setup, 5)
> switching note-taking workflows between handwritten notes, Notability,
> OneNote, plain markdown files, neorg files, Apple reminders, and more, and 6)
> adding unnecessary services to my homelab.

I **productively** procrastinate.

Lately, I have been addressing this "productivity-killer" in two ways:

1. If I am trying to find _the best_ setup,
   - I stop myself and just _use_ what I already have. No frills, if something
     doesn't work, then I change it accordingly (see 2.)
   - Setups, whether for coding, note-taking, reading, etc. evolve over time to
     fit the user
1. If I am obsessing over "distraction" tasks,
   - I ask myself, "do I need to finish this today?", "is this task pertinent?",
     or "can this just wait until the weekend?"
   - 9 times out of 10, the answer is that the task can wait. I can either add
     the task to my agenda (if it's life related) or add it as a task on GitHub
     (if it's coding related)

One of the worst habits I have is where I _need_ everything to be _right_ in
order for my day to be "productive." For example, I need to wake up at 6 AM, I
need to have my water/tea/coffee, I need to get to work by 7:30 AM, I need to
check my email, and so on. If there is any deviation from the **plan**, I freak
out and feel like the whole day is ruined. I talked to my manager about this,
and she jokingly brought up the analogy about spilled milk. If I let the day be
ruined, it's the same as just spilling the rest of the cup, rather than enjoying
what is left.
