+++
title = "Memories Are Reconstructions"
description = "Growing up is hard"
date = "2026-01-16T14:07:58-07:00"
tags = [ "life", "thoughts" ]
draft = true
+++

In one of the chapters in The Handmaid's Tale, the main character is
reminiscing.

> “This is a reconstruction. All of it is a reconstruction. It's a
> reconstruction now, in my head, as I lie flat on my single bed rehearsing what
> I should or shouldn't have said, what I should or shouldn't have done, how I
> should have played it. If I ever get out of here..Let's stop there. I intend
> to get out.”

I think about this quote often when I start to ruminate on my past. I think
about how the thoughts that I'm thinking about aren't the exact thought that I
thought (huh?). It's like taking a measurement with a scale. Is my weight 145lb?
Or 145.01lb? Or 144.99lb? The measurement that I get is only as accurate as the
measurement device, and even then there is uncertainty.

And so, when I think about my past, my brain is taking a measurement of my
experience, where my experience itself is a measurement of existing in the
world. It is not possible to perfectly reconstruct feelings, thoughts, and
experiences. We can only attempt to put those pieces together. We want go to a
place that doesn't exist, in a time we can no longer come back to. Memory is a
fickle thing.

Sometimes I think about the circumstances that pushed me out of my parents
house. Was it really that miserable? I think hard about it, and it couldn't have
been that bad right? I missed my parents and brother for the first two weeks. I
wasn't alone because i had my girlfriend, but I felt lonely. It was like I lost
them even though they were only half an hour away. Rather, it was like I lost
that piece of my life -- like that chapter in my life is inextricably closed
forever.

Time scares me. Sometimes, I think about growing up in that house and feel
overwhelmed. I can never fix my mistakes or say what needed to be said. I can
never be honest with them and try to fix the family. I can never go back to that
place as it once was, made of sweetness and anger.

I've been back to my parent's house. I don't quite feel like a stranger, but I
also don't feel like I belong. I stand in my room and think about the _me_ that
used to inhabit this place. The _me_ that spent the last 20 years growing up in
this place. The _me_ that was so unhappy in the dysfunction of that house that I
_had_ to leave. I also think about the _me_ that was dying laughing with my
brother playing video games. I think about the tender moments with my mom and
dad. I think about my 18th birthday and high school graduation celebration when
all my friends and family came over. And most of all, I think about my parents
growing older. I feel bitter because, even though I think I'm grown up, I still
feel like a petulant child who's feelings got hurt and will hold a grudge until
it's too late.

Home brings out a certain softness in me. But at the same time, it hardens my
heart because I know I made the right decision to choose myself.
