---
title: My NixOS Setup
description: How I setup all of my machines using nix
date: Created
# publishedDate: NA
draft: true
tags:
  - nix
  - devenv
---

TLDR; I'm a nerd with OCD and this specific setup is _way_ overkill for most
people.

---

## Linux Journey

I don't think I touched Linux before I got to college and began my degree in
Computer Science. I used `wsl2` when I was still daily driving Windows, as well
as Mines' free server called Isengard for testing homework and project
submissions. I also had a Chromebook that supported a [Linux
VM](https://support.google.com/chromebook/answer/9145439?hl=en) running and
older version of Debian that was decent. It was never the full _Linux_
experience though because the underlying OS was still ChromeOS, which wasn't
_that_ bad, but it did feel quite restrictive with the applications and
customization.

In my Junior year, I remember researching which Linux distribution was _the
best_ for me to use. It came down to Ubuntu, Debian, and Fedora (I didn't know
about NixOS or Arch Linux at the time). I thought that Ubuntu was pretty
standard but boring; Debian was boring but reliable (and quite behind!); and
Fedora was like the cooler Ubuntu because it was more cutting edge yet stable.

I did eventually transition to a MacBook Air M1 in 2022 and have been daily
driving macOS for the better part of three years now.


I have been using `nix` and NixOS for almost a year now. I started around
September 2024 when I installed it on an old Dell Optiplex that my dad had lying
around. I had been dabbling with NixOS in a virtual machine on my MacBook up
until then trying to figure out the syntax and use case. It was honestly very
overwhelming even for someone who like me who thought they were pretty
tech-savvy.
